--------------------------
ThiefMapper: Version 1.0
--------------------------
(c) C.Tschoegl
Ancalagon@gmx.net

ABOUT THE PROGRAM

This program is intended to facilitate the creation of Automaps for
'Thief: The Dark Project' by Looking Glass Studios. It allows easier 
placing of locations on a basic map. This program is Freeware. If you
find any bugs, send me an email.

INSTALLATION

Unzip the files to wherever you like.

USING THIEFMAPPER

To create a new positions file for your self-made maps, 
go to Positions->New and select your Pagexxx.pcx file. The map
and corresponding locations will be loaded. Make sure that all
locations are in the same directory as the map and numbered 
from PxxxR000.pcx onwards. Select a location in the Tools window
and position it on the map. Do the same for the other locations.
After you're done, go to Positions->Save to save the information.

To load a positions file, go to Positions->Load and select the
Pxxxra.bin. Again, all files have to be in the same directory.

To add new locations, go to Locations->Add. The program will search
for new location files in the directory where the others are.

For examples of what maps look like, look into Thief's Intrface.crf.

USING MAPS IN THIEF

For your mission to use the maps, you need to put them inside the 
"intrface" directory for your mission. If your mission was named 
for example "miss15" that would be the directory \intrface\miss15.
The necessary files for a functioning automap are:
			- Pagexxx.pcx  (the basic map)
			- PxxxRyyy.pcx (locations)
 			- Pxxxra.bin   (positioning info)

Example for a mission named "miss15" with one basic map and two locations:
			\intrface\miss15\Page001.pcx
			\intrface\miss15\p001r000.pcx
			\intrface\miss15\p001r001.pcx
			\intrface\miss15\P001ra.bin

In DromEd, you need to select a room brush and edit its properties.
Add Room::Automap and enter the number of the basic map into the Page
field (e.g. 1 for Page001.pcx) and the number of the location into
the Location field. (0 for p001r000.pcx, 1 for p001r001.pcx etc.)

DISCLAIMER

Use ThiefMapper at your own risk. I cannot be held responsible for any
damage it may cause.
