RTGto3DS usage. Shadowspawn - 8/3/2001

Bug Fixes:
1.01 - Fixed some color problems
1.02 - Removed an unnecessary mesh array from the 3ds output.
1.03 - Set the default output texture format to .gif

RTGto3DS is a command line (DOS) program which converts the original RTG
files from Looking Glass Studios Thief and Thief2 into standard 3DS files.
The RTG files are located in the mesh.crf file. These are in different 
locations in Thief and Thief2, so you'll have to figure out where they are.
The RTG files DON'T have an extension, so when you search the mesh.crf file,
you'll see the following, for example;

spidey7
spidey7.bin
spidey7.cal
spidey7.e

The file called simply 'spidey7' is the RTG file.

If you open the spidey7 file in a text editor, you'll see it's in ASCII. You
might also notice that there is a long path to a filename, typically ending
in a filename.TIF. We don't have the .tif files for the images, they've all
been converted to .gif format, and are also in the mesh.crf file.

OK, how to use RTGto3ds. Running it without any arguments gives you the
following;

RTGto3DS Version 1.0 by Shadowspawn
Usage: RTGto3DS /e<ext> Infile [Outfile]

Ok, first thing is the /e option. The 3DS file needs to specify it's texture
map file. Yes, we have the .gif files, but not all 3D modeling programs read
them. This option allows you to specify what extension the 3DS file will look
for as a texture map type. By default (if you don't specify the option),
RTGto3DS will use .gif format. To specify a .bmp file, use the /e option as

/ebmp

Please note: RTGto3DS will NOT create your texturemap file. It's in the
mesh.crf file. You need to extract it and convert it to whatever your
3D program will allow as input. Just make sure it's extension matches
what you told RTGto3DS.


The Infile field is required, it's the name of the RTG file. An optional
output filename can be specified. The default is to strip any extension
from the input file name and append .3DS to form the output name.


For the above spidey7 example, lets say we want to convert it to 3DS, using 
.jpg format bitmaps. So, the command line would be;

rtgto3ds /ejpg spidey7

which will create spidey7.3ds, which will be looking for the texture map file
spiderg.jpg when you load it into your 3d modeler. (spiderg.TIF was the 
original filename in the RTG file).


The output files are accurate 3DS files, but not every viewer or modeler may
be able to read them. I've tested with Anim8tor and Truespace, both can read
the files. I converted them to a 'prettier' 3DS format using AccuTrans 3D, but
a problem has been found with some of the converted files. It seems that
certain object names have been truncated. Your best bet is to find a modeler
which can read in the converted files directly, then save the AI mesh in the
modeler's native format.


Where do we go from here?

Once you are done modifying the AI mesh, (Adding a horned helmet, changing a
sword to a cudgel, etc), you want to bring this back into Thief (or SS2). 

1.) Convert the .3DS file into an .E file, using n3ds2e (or 3ds2e, if it's
    all you've got). n3ds2e is newer, and can be found at The-Circle and
    Thief-Underground.
2.) Find the directions for MeshScale, and read up on converting .E to .bin

(Quick tut - you'll need the batch file from mesh.crf, as well as a .map
and .mjo, and possibly a .cal file. It all depends on what AI you're 
converting. The batch file (dospider.bat, for example) will list the files
you'll need to extract).

3.) Move the new .bin and .cal file into your mesh subdirectory.
4.) Create a similar creature in Thief or SS2.
5.) Change the Shape -> Model Name to your new mesh file name
